remote productivity.md added (#233)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2020-04-16-remote_work_post.md

---

> title: Tools and ideas that keep us behind the wheel while remote working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Tools and ideas that keep us behind the wheel while working remotely.
```
?

Author: Both ways are ok

 frog to swallow. We've asked 3mdeb team about the biggest struggles of home
 office, answering with ready-to-use solutions, helpful in the current situation
 and above. Starting with the difficulties that cannot be solved by any software
 and rather by any hardware yet (but, who knows: maybe we should try it out that
 way?), there go domestic interruptions on a tape. We are, after all, surrounded
 by the household members: kids, dogs, neighbours and spouses with no-at-all
 possibility to mute them or to change the environment, even in the form of a
 short walk. And yes, we do love them more than work (at least some of us) but
 staying focused for a long time among sounds and needs is simply tough.
 However, our motivation goes even stronger, as developing open-source solutions
 to the public good in the current situation becomes a real mission. Majority
 works remotely these days and we all need to be equipped with the solutions of
 a good quality and open way to modify them according to our needs. If you want
 to check our particular contributions, the
 [article](https://blog.3mdeb.com/2020/2020-04-16-3mdeb-contrib-q1/) is the

>  must-read one.

Reviewer: @KBanecka why we have spece at the beginning of every line!?

Author: changed

 Maintaining full concentration among domestic interruptions is not an only
wrinkle. Lack of direct contact with co-workers is the obvious issue we all cope
with recently, as it extends sometimes the performance or full-understanding of
certain tasks. With a little help comes Jitsi Meet on Docker. As we use Docker
widely in our projects for firmware and embedded software building, conducting
trainings and when rootfs building for infrastructure deployment, here again,
for Jitsi Meet, fully encrypted, 100% Open Source videoconferencing solution,
you can find in our repository all the necessary tools to run a [Jitsi
Meet](https://github.com/3mdeb/docker-jitsi-meet) stack on Docker using Docker

> Compose.  Another grind-team-gears issue is difficulty with maintaining proper

Reviewer: @KBanecka new paragraph?

work-life balance. It is easy to merge with desk when having all the necessities
for the taking along with the good tools to work on. We didn't investigate
whether our testers work in pyjamas, but let's have a glimpse on what they are
having in the basic toolkit: [Flashrom](https://github.com/3mdeb/flashrom),
utility designed for flashing images on various programmer devices, helpful in
preparing device for further operations such as testing. Worthy to mention
[Cukinia](https://github.com/3mdeb/cukinia), Linux firmware validation framework
helps to run simple system-level validation tests on firmware, and when

> analyzing security, Chipsec with it's security test suite, tools for accessing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
analyzing security, [Chipsec](https://github.com/chipsec/chipsec) with its security test suite, tools for accessing
```

  checklists, detailed notes and to-do lists, planning each day in detail and
  thus make the most of work hours. Some of us effectively use the pomodoro
  technique, others break the eight-hour work system by dividing it into smaller
  parts. To maintain workflow, we make smart breaks, during which we try to
  leave the computer, spending time with the household members, taking a bit of
  the fresh air or doing sports: and by sports we don't mean rush-to-the-fridge.
  Doing our best to adapt to the current situation, we can proudly say that it
  works. The quality of our solutions works. Whereas looking further, we all
  agree that our struggles are going to have a positive impact when back to
  office, as current situation taught us about better work organization,
  self-discipline and the sense of responsibility. When it will become easier
  for us to stay focused in the work environment with the colleagues sitting
  nearby, what we will miss about remote working? Surely the flexibility of
  working hours, lack of commuting and in some cases homey pyjamas.
  Nevertheless, we are all waiting for the end of the pandemic and quick return
  to our desks, screens and mugs.

>   ![remote_work02](/img/remote_work02.jpg)

Reviewer 2: @KBanecka there is no summary? Is it intentional?

---

> title: Remote productivity

Reviewer 2: @KBanecka check this tool: https://aminstitute.com/headline/

> abstract: 'About remote productivity in 3mdeb.'

Reviewer: @KBanecka this should be something that post as pitch on social media, it seems to be little bit too short and not very encouraging.

Author: Ok, I'll work it out

Author: [commit](https://github.com/3mdeb/news-and-ideas/commit/dd554d2ecb716dae3e9e9afe9585bc912cd927c1#diff-a68390b5dcec9ebb7b7e5492bfbe6cdc)

cover: /covers/remote-work.jpg
author: kamila.banecka
layout: post
published: true
date: 2020-04-16
archives: "2020"

tags:
  - 3mdeb team
  - productivity
  - aboutUs
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
---
### How remote working affects productivity

Since the recent COVID-19 outbreak we all have been forced to pack our tools
along with our potential and switch to home office. One may say that for IT it
is not a milestone; after all our work didn’t change significantly. We can still
develop solutions of an invariably good quality providing that our remote
environment has been fully set. Apart from tools there are more factors,
combined in workflow, of which we are deprived while working remotely for a long
term. Among endless interruptions and no watchful eyes around, with difficulties
to connect people directly, there is the question that rises inside the head:

> <b> Ping or not to ping? </b>

Reviewer 2: @KBanecka html elements are necessary evil in this case - please use markdown emphasis characters:

\*\*bold\*\* -> **bold**

or

\_\_bold\_\_ -> __bold__

Author: changed

Author: done

difficulties.

##### How do we enhance our effectiveness working remotely

We all agree that effectiveness is based on a good planning and detailed goals.
Checklists, detailed notes, to-do lists and smart breaks help us to maintain our
workflow. Some of us effectively use the pomodoro technique, others break the
eight-hour work system by dividing it into smaller parts. During breaks, we try
to leave the computer, spending time with the household members, going out into
the fresh air or doing sports. Responding to encountered difficulties, we adapt
to the current situation, maintaining the good quality of our work. All team
agrees that it will definitely be a positive impact. The current situation
teaches us better work organization, self-discipline and strengthens the sense
of responsibility. It will be undeniably easier for us to stay focused in the
work environment with the colleagues sitting nearby. After such a break, it will
be much easier for us to appreciate the office everyday. What we will miss about
remote working? Surely the flexibility of working hours and the lack of
commuting. Nevertheless, we are all waiting for the end of the pandemic and

> quick return to our desks, screens and mugs.

Reviewer: @KBanecka I like the social feeling and emotion of the post, but we are open-source software and hardware company as well as embedded systems consulting. I would appreciate if you could underline how our beliefs, experience, past project and open technologies that we using every day helping us in remote work productivity.

For example, this is a very good post from well-respected company: https://puri.sm/posts/our-essential-list-of-free-software-for-remote-work/

Author: @pietrushnic I'm including your suggestions

Author: [commit](https://github.com/3mdeb/news-and-ideas/commit/dd554d2ecb716dae3e9e9afe9585bc912cd927c1#diff-a68390b5dcec9ebb7b7e5492bfbe6cdc)
